This method builds on the following base algorithm from Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning (Lillicrap et al. 2015), which it inherits unchanged except where noted below.

Algorithm 1 DDPG algorithm
Randomly initialize critic network Q(s, a|θQ ) and actor µ(s|θµ ) with weights θQ and θµ .
Initialize target network Q0 and µ0 with weights θQ ← θQ , θµ ← θµ
Initialize replay buffer R
for episode = 1, M do
Initialize a random process N for action exploration
Receive initial observation state s1
for t = 1, T do
Select action at = µ(st |θµ ) + Nt according to the current policy and exploration noise
Execute action at and observe reward rt and observe new state st+1
Store transition (st , at , rt , st+1 ) in R
Sample a random minibatch of N transitions (si , ai , ri , si+1 ) from R
Set yi = ri + γQ0 (si+1 , µ0 (si+1 |θµ )|θQ ) P
Update critic by minimizing the loss: L = N1 i (yi − Q(si , ai |θQ ))2
Update the actor policy using the sampled policy gradient:
1 X
∇θ µ J ≈
∇a Q(s, a|θQ )|s=si ,a=µ(si ) ∇θµ µ(s|θµ )|si
N i
Update the target networks:
θQ ← τ θQ + (1 − τ )θQ
θµ ← τ θµ + (1 − τ )θµ
end for

The modification introduced in this paper:

4.2. Clipped Double Q-Learning for Actor-Critic While several approaches to reducing overestimation bias have been proposed, we find them ineffective in an actorcritic setting. This section introduces a novel clipped variant of Double Q-learning (Van Hasselt, 2010), which can replace the critic in any actor-critic method. In Double Q-learning, the greedy update is disentangled from the value function by maintaining two separate value estimates, each of which is used to update the other. If the value estimates are independent, they can be used to make unbiased estimates of the actions selected using the opposite value estimate. In Double DQN (Van Hasselt et al., 2016), the authors propose using the target network as one of the value estimates, and obtain a policy by greedy maximization of the current value network rather than the target network. In an actor-critic setting, an analogous update uses the current policy rather than the target policy in the learning target: y = r + γQθ0 (s0 , πφ (s0 )). (8) In practice however, we found that with the slow-changing policy in actor-critic, the current and target networks were too similar to make an independent estimation, and offered little improvement. Instead, the original Double Q-learning formulation can be used, with a pair of actors (πφ1 , πφ2 ) and critics (Qθ1 , Qθ2 ), where πφ1 is optimized with respect to Qθ1 and πφ2 with respect to Qθ2 : y1 = r + γQθ20 (s0 , πφ1 (s0 )) y2 = r + γQθ10 (s0 , πφ2 (s0 )). (9) We measure the overestimation bias in Figure 2, which As πφ1 optimizes with respect to Qθ1 , using an independent estimate in the target update of Qθ1 would avoid the bias introduced by the policy update. However the critics are not entirely independent, due to the use of the opposite critic in the learning targets, as well as the same replay buffer. As a result, for some states s we will have Qθ2 (s, πφ1 (s)) > Qθ1 (s, πφ1 (s)). This is problematic because Qθ1 (s, πφ1 (s)) will generally overestimate the true value, and in certain areas of the state space the overestimation will be further exaggerated. To address this problem, we propose to simply upper-bound the less biased value estimate Qθ2 by the biased estimate Qθ1 . This results in taking the minimum between the two estimates, to give the target update of our Clipped Double Q-learning algorithm: y1 = r + γ min Qθi0 (s0 , πφ1 (s0 )). i=1,2 (10) With Clipped Double Q-learning, the value target cannot introduce any additional overestimation over using the standard Q-learning target. While this update rule may induce an underestimation bias, this is far preferable to overestimation bias, as unlike overestimated actions, the value of underestimated actions will not be explicitly propagated through the policy update. In implementation, computational costs can be reduced by using a single actor optimized with respect to Qθ1 . We then use the same target y2 = y1 for Qθ2 . If Qθ2 > Qθ1 then the update is identical to the standard update and induces no additional bias. If Qθ2 < Qθ1 , this suggests overestimation has occurred and the value is reduced similar to Double Qlearning. A proof of convergence in the finite MDP setting follows from this intuition. We provide formal details and justification in the supplementary material. A secondary benefit is that by treating the function approximation error as a random variable we can see that the minimum operator should provide higher value to states with lower variance estimation error, as the expected minimum of a set of random variables decreases as the variance of the random variables increases. This effect means that the minimization in Equation (10) will lead to a preference for states with low-variance value estimates, leading to safer policy updates with stable learning targets. 5. Addressing Variance While Section 4 deals with the contribution of variance to overestimation bias, we also argue that variance itself should be directly addressed. Besides the impact on overestimation Addressing Function Approximation Error in Actor-Critic Methods 104 350 Average Value bias, high variance estimates provide a noisy gradient for the policy update. This is known to reduce learning speed (Sutton & Barto, 1998) as well as hurt performance in practice. In this section we emphasize the importance of minimizing error at each update, build the connection between target networks and estimation error and propose modifications to the learning procedure of actor-critic for variance reduction. 300 103 250 τ =1 τ = 0.1 200 150 0.0 0.2 τ = 0.01 True Value 0.4 0.6 0.8 Time steps (1e5) (a) Fixed Policy 1.0 102 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 Time steps (1e5) 1.0 (b) Learned Policy 5.1. Accumulating Error Due to the temporal difference update, where an estimate of the value function is built from an estimate of a subsequent state, there is a build up of error. While it is reasonable to expect small error for an individual update, these estimation errors can accumulate, resulting in the potential for large overestimation bias and suboptimal policy updates. This is exacerbated in a function approximation setting where the Bellman equation is never exactly satisfied, and each update leaves some amount of residual TD-error δ(s, a): Qθ (s, a) = r + γE[Qθ (s0 , a0 )] − δ(s, a). (11) It can then be shown that rather than learning an estimate of the expected return, the value estimate approximates the expected return minus the expected discounted sum of future TD-errors: Qθ (st , at ) = rt + γE[Qθ (st+1 , at+1 )] − δt = rt + γE [rt+1 + γE [Qθ (st+2 , at+2 ) − δt+1 ]] − δt " T # X i−t = Esi ∼pπ ,ai ∼π γ (ri − δi ) . (12) i=t If the value estimate is a function of future reward and estimation error, it follows that the variance of the estimate will be proportional to the variance of future reward and estimation error. Given a large discount factor γ, the variance can grow rapidly with each update if the error from each update is not tamed. Furthermore each gradient update only reduces error with respect to a small mini-batch which gives no guarantees about the size of errors in value estimates outside the mini-batch. 5.2. Target Networks and Delayed Policy Updates In this section we examine the relationship between target networks and function approximation error, and show the use of a stable target reduces the growth of error. This insight allows us to consider the interplay between high variance estimates and policy performance, when designing reinforcement learning algorithms. Target networks are a well-known tool to achieve stability in deep reinforcement learning. As deep function approximators require multiple gradient updates to converge, target networks provide a stable objective in the learning Figure 3. Average estimated value of a randomly selected state on Hopper-v1 without target networks, (τ = 1), and with slowupdating target networks, (τ = 0.1, 0.01), with a fixed and a learned policy. procedure, and allow a greater coverage of the training data. Without a fixed target, each update may leave residual error which will begin to accumulate. While