This method builds on the following base algorithm from Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (Finn et al. 2017), which it inherits unchanged except where noted below.

Algorithm 1 Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning
Require: p(T ): distribution over tasks
Require: α, β: step size hyperparameters
1: randomly initialize θ
2: while not done do
3:
Sample batch of tasks Ti ∼ p(T )
4:
for all Ti do
5:
Evaluate ∇θ LTi (fθ ) with respect to K examples
6:
Compute adapted parameters with gradient descent: θi0 = θ − α∇θ LTi (fθ )

The modification introduced in this paper:

Meta-Learning an Initialization We consider the optimization problem of MAML [4]: find an initial set of parameters, φ, such that for a randomly sampled task τ with corresponding loss Lτ , the learner will have low loss after k 2 updates. That is: h  i minimize Eτ Lτ Uτk (φ) , φ (1) where Uτk is the operator that updates φ k times using data sampled from τ . In few-shot learning, U corresponds to performing gradient descent or Adam [10] on batches of data sampled from τ . MAML solves a version of Equation (1) that makes on additional assumption: for a given task τ , the inner-loop optimization uses training samples A, whereas the loss is computed using test samples B. This way, MAML optimizes for generalization, akin to cross-validation. Omitting the superscript k, we notate this as minimize Eτ [Lτ,B (Uτ,A (φ))] , φ (2) MAML works by optimizing this loss through stochastic gradient descent, i.e., computing ∂ Lτ,B (Uτ,A (φ)) ∂φ 0 = Uτ,A (φ)L0τ,B ( e φ), where gMAML = (3) φe = Uτ,A (φ) (4) 0 (φ) is the Jacobian matrix of the update operation U In Equation (4), Uτ,A τ,A . Uτ,A corresponds to adding a sequence of gradient vectors to the initial vector, i.e., Uτ,A (φ) = φ + g1 + g2 + · · · + gk . (In Adam, the gradients are also rescaled elementwise, but that does not change the conclusions.) First0 (φ) order MAML (FOMAML) treats these gradients as constants, thus, it replaces Jacobian Uτ,A by the identity operation. Hence, the gradient used by FOMAML in the outer-loop optimization is gFOMAML = L0τ,B ( e φ). Therefore, FOMAML can be implemented in a particularly simple way: (1) sample task τ ; (2) apply the update operator, yielding φe = Uτ,A (φ); (3) compute the gradient at e φ); and finally (4) plug gFOMAML into the outer-loop optimizer. φ, gFOMAML = L0τ,B ( e 3 Reptile In this section, we describe a new first-order gradient-based meta-learning algorithm called Reptile. Like MAML, Reptile learns an initialization for the parameters of a neural network model, such that when we optimize these parameters at test time, learning is fast—i.e., the model generalizes from a small number of examples from the test task. The Reptile algorithm is as follows: Algorithm 1 Reptile (serial version) Initialize φ, the vector of initial parameters for iteration = 1, 2, . . . do Sample task τ , corresponding to loss Lτ on weight vectors φe Compute φe = Uτk (φ), denoting k steps of SGD or Adam Update φ ← φ + (φe − φ) end for In the last step, instead of simply updating φ in the direction φe − φ, we can treat (φ − e φ) as a gradient and plug it into an adaptive algorithm such as Adam [10]. (Actually, as we will discuss in Section 5.1, it is most natural to define the Reptile gradient as (φ − e φ)/α, where α is the stepsize 3 used by the SGD operation.) We can also define a parallel or batch version of the algorithm that evaluates on n tasks each iteration and updates the initialization to n 1X φ←φ+ (φei − φ) n (5) i=1 where φei = Uτki (φ); the updated parameters on the ith task. This algorithm looks remarkably similar to joint training on the expected loss Eτ [Lτ ]. Indeed, if we define U to be a single step of gradient descent (k = 1), then this algorithm corresponds to stochastic gradient descent on the expected loss: gReptile,k=1 = Eτ [φ − Uτ (φ)] /α = Eτ [∇φ Lτ (φ)] (6) (7) However, if we perform gradient updates in the partial minimization (k > 1), then the  multiple  expected update Eτ Uτk (φ) does not correspond to taking a gradient step on the expected loss Eτ [Lτ ]. Instead, the update includes important terms coming from second-and-higher derivatives of Lτ , as we will analyze in Section 5.1. Hence, Reptile converges to a solution that’s very different from the minimizer of the expected loss Eτ [Lτ ]. Other than the stepsize parameter  and task sampling, the batched version of Reptile is the same as the SimuParallelSGD algorithm [21]. SimuParallelSGD is a method for communicationefficient distributed optimization, where workers perform gradient updates locally and infrequently average their parameters, rather than the standard approach of averaging gradients. 4 Case Study: One-Dimensional Sine Wave Regression As a simple case study, let’s consider the 1D sine wave regression problem, which is slightly modified from Finn et al. [4]. This problem is instructive since by design, joint training can’t learn a very useful initialization; however, meta-learning methods can. • The task τ = (a, b) is defined by the amplitude a and phase φ of a sine wave function fτ (x) = a sin(x + b). The task distribution by sampling a ∼ U ([0.1, 5.0]) and b ∼ U ([0, 2π]). • Sample p points x1 , x2 , . . . , xp ∼ U ([−5, 5]) • Learner sees (x1 , y1 ), (x2 , y2 ), . . . , (xp , yp ) and predicts the whole function f (x) • Loss is `2 error on the whole interval [−5, 5] Z 5 dxkf (x) − fτ (x)k2 Lτ (f ) = (8) −5 We calculate this integral using 50 equally-spaced points x. First note that the average function is zero everywhere, i.e., Eτ [fτ (x)] = 0, due to the random phase b. Therefore, it is useless to train on the expected loss Eτ [Lτ ], as this loss is minimized by the zero function f (x) = 0. On the other hand, MAML and Reptile give us an initialization that outputs approximately f (x) = 0 before training on a task τ , but the internal feature representations of the network are such that after training on the sampled datapoints (x1 , y1 ), (x2 , y2 ), . . . , (xp , yp ), it closely approximates 4 the target function fτ . This learning progress is shown in the figures below. Figure 1 shows that after Reptile training, the network can quickly converge to a sampled sine wave and infer the values away from the sampled points. As points of comparison, we also show the behaviors of MAML and a randomly-initialized network on the same task. Before After 32 True Sampled 3 2 1 4 Before After 32 True Sampled 3 2 1 4 2 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 3 4 2 0 2 4 (a) Before training 4 4 2 0 2 4 Before After 32 True Sampled 3 4 (b) After MAML training 4 2 0 2 4 (c) After Reptile training Figure 1: Demonstration of MAML and Reptile on a toy few-shot regression problem, where we train on 10 sampled points of a sine wave, performing 32 gradient steps on an MLP with layers 1 → 64 → 64 → 1. 5 Analysis In this section, we provide two alternative explanations of why Reptile works. 5.1 Leading Order Expansion